[Music]
but before being reunited with her
family she still has a mountain to climb
it's a big ask for a bird that can't fly
standing less than half a meter tall but
it's now that rockhoppers live up to
their name incredibly strong toenails
rip the rock the beak makes a good
climbing tool the more experienced
penguins make it look easy but it's a
steep learning curve
[Music]
it takes youngsters a while to get the
hang of it
[Music]
misjudge it and it's back to square one
at the top of the cliff the going gets a
little easier
she's following the footsteps of
generations forging deep tunnels through
the tussock across
these pathways connect around 20
different colonies spreading up the
hillside
she's got to find her way through nearly
half-a-million rockhoppers but she knows
where she's going
returning to the same colony each year
unfortunately that happens to be at the
very top of the island
[Music]
finally
after a climb of two kilometres she's
made it
[Music]
and I've lost it's time for dinner some
messy business but the chicks not
complaining
the Arctic millions of square kilometers
of empty ice polar bears are normally
solitary you might think they're just
finding a partner in this desolate
landscape would be the challenge
but they have an excellent sense of
smell and can detect another bear from
over the horizon
[Music]
male bears can spend weeks tracking the
scent of a female who's ready to mate
they sniff closely to size each other up
she'll raise her Cubs alone devoting
herself to them for two even three years
it's a huge commitment of time and
effort so it's vital to pick a male who
will provide strong and healthy genes
for her offspring it looks as though
she's going to put this potential suitor
through his paces she needs him up and
down the slopes it's as if she's testing
his fitness they start to play
[Music]
courtship is one of the few times that
adult animals play together
[Music]
this slope is rather steep for the
heavier male
[Music]
it's no good he can't quite manage it
but she seems to have decided that he
might be the one
whilst he seems to have lost interest
[Music]
it's her turn to do the chasing and
she's got a few tricks up her sleeve
[Music]
that was enough to entice him out again
in this tree there is one of the most
extraordinary
predators it's one animal that I don't
need to sneak up on boo this
extraordinary creature is half blind
half deaf and this is just about as fast
as it can move that's what can happen to
you if you live on nothing but leaves
it's a slice it's not exactly an
enthusiastic leaf eater a couple of
half-hearted chews and the leaves go
straight down to its stomach leaves
however are not easily digested the
sleds technique is to give them time
then eventually this mobile compost heap
pulls itself together and starts on a
long and dangerous journey this is a
very unusual sight a sloth in a hurry
it wants to defecate and the only place
it's happy doing that oddly enough is
down on the ground it only does it about
once a week but why does it come down to
the ground to do it and why does it
nearly always choose to do so in exactly
the same place
whatever the reason it must be very
important for a sloth on the ground is
almost helpless any predator could
attack it and it doesn't have the speed
to escape why it comes down in this way
is a mystery
now it's finished and Becky goes up to
the safety of the canopy leaves are not
very nutritious
the slows way of compensating for that
is not to eat more but to do less it's
claws hook over the branches so that the
sloth can hang without any effort of its
muscles which have been reduced to thin
rhythms and to save energy it spends
most of its time hanging around half
asleep in the treetops so with very
little muscle and a reaction time only a
quarter as fast as ours how does a sloth
stay compared with our day in the time
it takes me to write a few letters the
studies just about manages to groom
itself while we have our lunch this
slave's nibbles a few leaves and then as
we phone the sequence for the series
it's time jinghuan a three month old
female abandoned by her mother after
only a few days she is being hand reared
pandas have twins 50% at the time but
choose only to keep the strongest it's
nature's survival of the fittest
[Music]
meanwhile wasn't chosen by her mum so
the nannies go out of their way to spoil
her rotten
she is already outgrown her incubator
and is piling on the pounds puppy fat on
a baby panda is good at 11 pounds
jung-hwa is filling out well
you need to know your pandas growing
probably so everything is weighed and
measured their robust at this age and a
little bang it's all part of the fun
when baby mammals are hand reared you
have to do everything that mum does and
that includes encouraging them to weave
in the wild they can't do this on their
own so mum helps when licking their
behind
it's happing Ling Hwa's back-end is the
next best option and simulates what
panda mums do with their tongue to
encourage going to the toilet
[Music]
this will need to be done on each panda
multiple times a day pretty much after
every feed so when you count them all up
that's a lot of toilet training with the
herd stay in one place our spy cams can
be everywhere even a tree stump spies on
the calf's every movement
[Music]
Boulder County was first used in a film
that spied on lions now it finds a new
generation to entertain as always the
Lions first reaction is curiosity but
these cats are more inquisitive than
most one cub has taken to it in a big
way
Boulder cam doubles up as a baby walker
[Music]